[Music]
ten psychological effects that affect
your behavior sometimes we do something
weird and then think what was the logic
of my behavior was it there in fact
there's always some logic but most often
it hides in certain peculiarities of
your mind today we're going to tell you
about ten psychological effects that
affect you almost every day
watch the video till the end to
understand why we always want something
that is impossible to achieve and why we
act one way or another number tab the
anchoring effect people feel it's much
easier to evaluate something if they
have the original price even if it's
wrong as kind of an anchor it's often
used by stores for example you wouldn't
buy a blouse for $300 in your right mind
however if you see it originally cost
$1000 you'll think it's a sin to miss
such a great deal even though the
initial price might be invented number 9
deflection to the result we often judge
the correctness of a decision by the
final result not by the actions taken to
achieve it this effect is often used by
those ads which concentrates you only on
the final result for example on buying
so if you're using a brand new iPhone
you cannot claim that the decision to
spend all your money on it was right
number 8 the paradox of choice the
paradox of choice says that the more
options there are the less possibility
we'll be happy with our final choice
keep in mind that sometimes you buy
something and then regret it because you
could have bought it on sale or you
could have found another model even if
the final decision is the best we can
stay unhappy because the choice was too
big
number seven clustering illusion this
illusion is characterized by the
tendency to see a certain system in
random coincidences this especially
applies to gamblers and lovers of fates
on both of them can wrongly interpret
events don't wind yourself up okay
number six pratfall effect imagine a
couple walking down the street and one
of them suddenly hits a pole it's
unlikely the other one will think what
an idiot on the contrary the first one
will seem even sweeter it's because
perfection is repulsive and mistakes are
attractive they make us more human
that's why you shouldn't get too upset
having stumbled in front of anyone
number five the Kuleshov effect the
effect when a viewer after seeing two
unrelated frames unconsciously makes up
a logical connection between them is
called the Kuleshov effect Kuleshov
created a short film in which a man's
facial expression was alternated with
various shots the audience thought that
his facial expression was different each
time depending on whether he was looking
at a plate of soup a dead girl or a
woman on a sofa however his face was the
same all the time
this effect is successfully used not
only among cinematographers but also
among marketers instilling in you
certain associations with a certain
product or carrot
number four body negative body negative
is a condition where a person thinks
they're ugly and this is why their
personal life is a fail and their whole
life is a fail most often such people
are attractive and the problem is more
about self-esteem than real flaws number
three survivorship bias most often we
judge a situation only by successful
people survivors and that's why we know
just one side of it
for example we Envy a business person
who got rich selling bengal lights but
we don't know how many business people
failed with them you should always try
to look at things from different angles
number two hard to reach effect roughly
speaking this is the phenomenon telling
that the hard to reach is always more
desirable even if we look at it from a
human level close high status no one
knows what's on their mind people always
seem more attractive than others
[Music]
number one the fear of beauty did you
notice that ordinary people are less
likely to sit down next to beautiful
people for example on public transport
they do it only if there are no other
seats left in fact some people feel
excessive tension next to beautiful
people
excitement double control of one's
actions the desire to save face and the
fear of comparison such stress doesn't
arise next to an average person you know
any interesting psychological tricks
that help in communicating with anyone
share them in the comment don't forget
to hit the like button below the video
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
you